i think that's our cue hello everyone
I think that's our cue hello everyone
and welcome to the Stellar open protocol
discussion as always in these
meetings we discuss core advancement
proposals aka caps caps are technical
specs that suggest changes to the
Stellar protocol in order to allow the
protocol to continue to drive forward
make progress evolve to meet the needs
of the ecosystem
these meetings if you're watching this
is probably pretty obvious are live
streamed so that you can follow along
i do want to know this is a very very
I do want to know this is a very very
technical discussion right so if you're
watching you probably want to take a
look at the caps that are linked to in
the show descriptions as are the
previous conversations about those caps
on the Stellar dev mailing list
I'm not going to identify all the
participants they're also listed there
so you can look them up
they're qualified
so today what are we doing today we will
again discuss cap 42 multi-part
transaction sets which was what we
discussed last time but it's been
significantly revised since that
discussion we are also going to have
an initial discussion about cap 44
speedx configuration and we'll get into
what those proposals entail in a minute
but first i want to give a quick word
but first I want to give a quick word
about the life cycle of a cap and
there's a purpose for me saying all this
that i'll get to so this meeting is
really just part of the process of the
creation and implementation of a cap
open discussion about caps it happens on
the Stellar dev mailing list there's a
link to that in the event description as
well so if you want to join that's the
current discussions or future
discussions sign up for that mailing
list
caps are drafted and sort of iterated
on based on the async feedback and
suggestions that come in via that list
before they end up here being discussed
in this meeting so in this meeting we go
over very specific questions and the
goal is to get a cap ready to move on if
a cap is ready it may be put up for a
vote before the cap committee and
they decide on whether or not to accept
it
so after a cap committee vote by the way
the cap enters into a one week final
comment period and that gives everyone a
chance to sort of raise questions again
on the Stellar debt mailing list if cap
makes it through a final comment period
it's implemented in a major Stellar core
release
before that Stellar core release
actually hits the network validators
have to vote to upgrade the network to
accept that release and so ultimately
any sort of proposal that makes it into
implementation into a Stellar core
release is accepted by the network
through that governance mechanism so
part of the reason I'm bringing all that
up today is that before we go on to
the main discussion about caps 42 and
caps 44 we're going to revisit a couple
of caps cap 21
which generalizes transaction
preconditions and cap 40 which adds a
new signer type that multiple parties
can use to more effectively share a
transaction set for signing so these are
two caps that we sort of got pretty much
across the finish line
they have they basically include changes
that are helpful for people that are
looking to develop innovative solutions
on Stellar specifically payment channels
and bridges to other network the goal of
these is to sort of unlock the potential
for greater interoperability so again
these caps they already went through the
ringer
they're currently in a waiting decision
so that's their official status awaiting
decision but first things first i
think the cap committee is ready to
approve both caps
and so i want to check in with the cap
and so I want to check in with the cap
committee and see if that's true now the
cap committee is jed and nico and
david and jed who is not here i checked
david and jed who is not here I checked
with before and he is ready to approve
nico and david are you also ready to
approve or is there more to talk about
for capital 21
david you approve okay yeah
it's the same for me yeah yeah same for
me like the there was a change
yesterday or the day before on cap 40
but it's yeah it's a minor change so
we're good
all right
approved so after this meeting
I'm going to change the status of those
caps to final comment period pending
approval and again that gives everyone a
one week window to like raise any final
questions or concerns
i guess if a legitimate concern comes
I guess if a legitimate concern comes
up during that time we can send it back
to draft mode but if there's no concerns
legitimate concerns that arise during
that time those caps will be approved
and that means they're going to be ready
to move on to implementation
for inclusion in the next protocol
release which is protocol 19. so as of
right now
shortly after this meeting cap 21 and
cap 40 officially move into final
comment period
all right now on to the real meat of the
matter we're going to talk about
these two caps and the first one that
we're going to talk about is cap 42
multi-part transaction sets
this cap gives validators control over
which fee policy to use for individual
transactions included in a ledger we
discussed it two weeks ago and there
were several suggestions about how to
improve it and based on those
suggestions it was revised and so i
think to start with let's just get a
quick overview of the changes to cap 42.
nico you want to take that
yeah and yeah so what i ended up
yeah and yeah so what I ended up
doing is
basically i added the
basically I added the
notion of execution phase that in the
short term we are not going to have a
new phase it's more incorporation for
things like speed x where we expect to
have that being done in
as a separate phase isolated from
the
the existing transaction subsystem
and then within a phase what i did is
and then within a phase what I did is
that
yeah after our conversation last time
like i
it was clear that we needed to maybe
clarify better like what like when
transactions
or make it more explicit i guess that
or make it more explicit I guess that
there was actually full control of
the fee regime
that was given to validators so what i
did was i added a new
tag that allows validators to
to basically
use the actual feedback as fee being
charged for certain transactions
as well as
having the possibility of having a
discounted
rates
when it comes to for example
i mean actually that's what we do today
I mean actually that's what we do today
like we actually give
large discounts to to transactions
that are when we're not in search
pricing
so that's what i did i also added
so that's what I did I also added
some clarifications on
on on
how this makes and why this makes sense
i think there were more questions
I think there were more questions
actually and that maybe where we we can
maybe like spend some more time today
around
like are we basically defeating like
the
existing guidance that we give people
when we say bid
whatever you feel comfortable with and
then
the network will
you will actually you're unlikely to
actually pay for what you're bidding if
you're over bidding and i think
you're over bidding and I think
there's a this is a fair question
so on that yeah i don't know if
so on that yeah I don't know if
david or john i know like we use i mean
david or john I know like we use I mean
I i you know i i like this new version i
I I you know I like this new version i
think it's a lot cleaner i think
think it's a lot cleaner I think
possibly in line with with
what you're saying if i have one one nit
what you're saying if I have one one nit
to pick in the
backwards in the protocol upgrade
transition we state
as this cap does not change
transition semantics i think maybe we
transition semantics I think maybe we
should just qualify this or you know
like you know changes the fee but it's
within this
originally permitted semantics or
something
but that's
that's pretty
nitpicky
yeah i mean i think yeah like
yeah I mean I think yeah like
yeah
i can fix that definitely like
I can fix that definitely like
i think the
I think the
interesting thing that was raised both
by john that is on the call and by lee
that is not here today
are actually good questions around like
today you can basically bid
by a factor of like a million let's say
and
you're actually very unlikely to be pay
for i mean you're exposing yourself to
for I mean you're exposing yourself to
that but then a bunch of other people
would have to pay
that type of fee
whereas with this proposal
depending on on which the data you
you run into you may actually pay
that fee
so
like for me the rationale for that is
that we are actually
kind of
put it's it's i think i put that as
put it's it's I think I put that as
my notes as
we can actually rely on some of the
a contract between validators that
the
you know the responsibility of a
validator is to actually have lower fees
and then we can actually use in a way
that as an expectation for validators
when they
just like today when you run a validator
you have to have an archive like you
you basically have a contract with
with other validators
and at any time other validators can
basically decide to remove that
faulty or not not fully compliant
validator from their current set and
then we end up with
with i think a system that
with I think a system that
yeah that's realized more on this on
this contract that it's not necessarily
a technical contract it's a
kind of a
in order to be
aligned with the
values of the network
you have you know you shouldn't be
forcing like isolating for example
transactions so that they just to
mess with people
just a question if it's more of like a
social contract or a set of expectations
that validators follow
is there a method for them to to know
if other validators are living up to
that yeah so that's actually a good
question so like it's we actually have a
similar contract today with
like
validators should not be
excluding certain transactions
from their current set like you would
like the only way you can discover that
today is by
looking if there are
patterns where some transactions let's
say for certain assets or things like
that are
always excluded by some validators you
can actually go through history this is
all public and you know
you can basically kind of audit
the behavior of the details
and i think we
and I think we
this is a similar problem here where you
want to have the tools for
auditing validators when it comes to
this
new power that we are giving them so the
data will be in history
i think what we have right now is that
I think what we have right now is that
in horizon for example we don't actually
expose much of the
sap information
so we don't know if
what was actually happening during
consensus runs
for example like we don't know if some
people are
never
aligned with other people like for
example so
i think this is this is the type of work
I think this is this is the type of work
that can be done
either by yeah by the sdf or by other
people in the community to kind of raise
the bar just like we have
raise the bar when it comes to what
it means to run a validator with you
know like projects like
like Stellar b right that are showing
when validators are flailing or things
like that
so i i mean this is like what you've
so I mean this is like what you've
just mentioned is sort of one solution
like yes we need a
we need a
you know some kind of validator
conventions and
ultimately there needs to be some kind
of companion companion document that you
know this guy might not be a cap but it
discusses a like how you configure your
Stellar core to express these policies
and like what we make easy and hard to
do like in the kind of default Stellar
core release it's obviously gonna have a
big impact on this but i think there's
big impact on this but I think there's
another side of this which where you
know we don't want people to have the
trust validators so we should be maybe
promoting fee bump transactions like a
bit more heavily right i mean certainly
bit more heavily right I mean certainly
you know one thing that like wallets
could do is they could sort of by
default like you know whenever you sign
a transaction it would also sign like a
couple of fee bump transactions that it
would kind of like resubmit
you know
like more expensive versions if the
first one didn't get through or things
like that so i think we should
like that so I think we should
be you know in terms of backwards
compatibility i think we should not
compatibility I think we should not
you know i think we should make clear
you know I think we should make clear
that there may be some expectations on
on the ecosystem
the sort of wallet side yep
that
yeah I'm sorry justin go ahead i was
yeah I'm sorry justin go ahead I was
just gonna say because on some level
there needs to be education and tooling
to understand how to manage
dynamic fees
more actively because right now as nico
said you can just set your highest fee
and dynamic fees the network you know
what to expect but you won't necessarily
is that so what you're saying david is
that we would need documentation and
potentially tooling
to in order to educate people to the
expectation that they like wallets will
need to more actively managed dynamics
or maybe maybe we need a feature an
optional feature for horizon that people
would enable on their private horizons
maybe on the public ones but where you
submit three versions of a transaction
and it sort of
like keeps submitting like the more
expensive one if the previous one hasn't
cleared in some period of time or
something right
you know i can't design the the
you know I can't design the the
the feature on the fly but it seems like
something you we might want to to think
about and if people if want to take
their wallets offline or not be sort of
constantly monitoring the network maybe
this should be this should be part of
horizon maybe this is an incentive for
organizations to run their own horizon
because they can you know control this
better
asked me to say the following
the cp is built on reputation the
concern that a reputable validator is
going to go rogue and build an
alternative transaction set nomination
rule set is a bit far-fetched
and the ecosystem can build tools that
monitor validators for behaving sensibly
sorry but there's a there's a big space
between rogue and between like something
like i might not agree with right
like I might not agree with right
so i think like the point is like
so I think like the point is like
there could be legitimate disagreement
about this and we want users to be in
control or to you know they might you
know rather not have their transaction
be
be executed if they're gonna get charged
way more than somebody else
i think like
I think like
as far as tooling goes i think like you
as far as tooling goes I think like you
know one thing that seller beat could do
that would do would be really cool in
this context would be like hey like
what are the like you know
you know every 10th percentile 10 20 30
etc
fees that this this validator is
nominating if
validators are being like pretty fair
you would expect every
validator to nominate
basically the same percentiles total
fees
more or less and that would give a
lot of people evidence about like oh you
know like this guy's being a big jerk
and really just trying to get people to
pay whereas other people aren't doing
that but i agree with you david that you
that but I agree with you david that you
know that doesn't change the fact that
you know your validator might say like
hey like i think this type of
hey like I think this type of
transactions pay high fee and this one
for payloafi
i think the opposite they're equal
I think the opposite they're equal
distributions
and so like our stats look the same but
we're treating people differently
maybe all the validators agree but it
just turns out that it's there's some
small number of like legitimate
transactions that are hard to separate
from spam right and so you need to
i think just not
I think just not
participate we need we need an up we
don't people shouldn't be forced into
participating in the dutch auction right
they should be able to
you know control their
you know maximum fee to ensure that
they're not paying more than like twice
as much as other people and that's
something that's it's doable it just
requires a little bit of support on the
you know sort of platform side of
things
for me kind of the like
i've been thinking about this this whole
thing since we since we spoke about it
last
was that last thursday two thursdays ago
whenever it was
and i've kind of convinced myself that
in the long run like looking like let's
say that we did this in x months and
then you look at x plus 12 months in the
future
like probably everything is fine
everybody adapts to the new world you
know maybe some new tooling develops
like david is talking about everybody
switches to kind of this lower fee
mentality where you don't just bid like
10x 100x whatever what you're willing
what you actually want to pay at the
present
but like looking right now you know i
was looking at dashboard for the last
couple minutes like every minute
and the 50th 60th 70th percentile fees
have been sitting around 20 000
stroops pretty much non-stop in that
period sometimes it's been the 60th 70th
80th
but
20 000 troops
and that's you know about one-third of
the total traffic
so there are a lot of people who are
bidding
way above the fees that are actually
getting accepted in the short run if
those people aren't paying attention
those people are going to be pretty sad
i think yeah they're just 100 million
I think yeah they're just 100 million
stroop
bid yeah yeah yeah so i mean i guess
bid yeah yeah yeah so I mean I guess
that's 10 lumens or whatever is that
250.
yeah it's not insane I'm i have to say
yeah it's not insane I'm I have to say
i've literally said to many many people
and i just do a hundred thousand troops
and I just do a hundred thousand troops
you'll be fine
don't worry about it just said 100 and
you know
i'll try to tell those same people if
if that changes that made sense right
so this change i think what you're
so this change I think what you're
saying
yes yeah
this short-term pain long-term gain
thing that you're pointing out john
may well be true
i mean like i think the difference is
I mean like I think the difference is
that like
yeah like if for example like these fees
of the network are like you know around
like the minimum like like like when
you're not in such pricing price right
that's kind of where you are
like if you paid like even
100 times more than that like that still
gives you
like some advantage compared to other
people like you're still doing some
level of bidding like i think that's the
level of bidding like I think that's the
difference with this cap is that
you would not be bidding
like yeah like a million times more
like you would be bidding only you know
a thousand times more
i mean that that's i think that's the
I mean that that's I think that's the
shift is that you you have to be maybe
closer to what you want to pay
unless like like in some
situations like the I'm like the
the people like putting 10 lumen as a
fee i mean this is what
fee I mean this is what
we we i think discussed in the
we we I think discussed in the
past those are the type of numbers
i would expect when if you do like
I would expect when if you do like
some some trades that actually
are going to be
valued at more than than that
and i think those over the long term
and I think those over the long term
they will continue to actually be
bidding that high
and that makes
sense
but they will actually pay them pay that
that's the difference
well those fees should come down quite a
lot actually and that's one of the
things that made me think in the long
run
this would be better like right now
imagine that you're you're racing for an
arbitrage opportunity let's say the
arbitrage opportunity using the numbers
that we were just using is worth you
know 11x allowance you're like I'm
willing to bring 10xl I'm going to try
to get you know one excellent profit in
the worst case maybe you're even willing
to bid 11.
but let's just say 10 for the sake of
argument
well right now it's like I'm going to
bid 10 but I'm probably going to pay
100 troops a thousand strips whatever
based on like what normally happens
during surge pricing
and so you've got let's say like 500
people or something trying to do this
one of them wins the other 499
transactions go in the garbage
but in the real world where everybody
is actually bidding
for this you know 10xlm thing and
they're going to pay 10 meaning with
this proposal when i say in the real
this proposal when I say in the real
world
everybody would actually lose money and
expectation so they'll all have to drop
their fees by a factor of the
competition
so fees will actually like their peak
fees would come down by a factor of 500
in this example so that's pretty cool
that gives other opportunities a much
better chance to be competitive
so i think long term there could be
so I think long term there could be
benefits beyond just like you know
people bidding closer to reality but
also just like changing the discrepancy
between like I'm trying to send a
payment to my friend and I'm trying to
take advantage of some arbitrage
opportunity
yeah
i got one more question from tomer here
I got one more question from tomer here
actually it's too how do we envision
validators controlling this will we give
them configuration options in Stellar
core
so yeah like i i thought a little bit
so yeah like I thought a little bit
about this all right like last time
there were actually questions around
that like are there like certain
configs
i think it depends on the type of
I think it depends on the type of
strategies we're going to implement
some of the
the things where i can see some configs
the things where I can see some configs
being
useful are if we start to have
like
this type of surprising in a way that is
doing something maybe over historical
data like when you look at the last few
ledgers instead of just looking at the
current pledger
and then as soon as you said the last
few ledgers were then how many right so
that would be an example where you have
a tunable
for the
cur like there's another tunable i think
cur like there's another tunable I think
that
that i can think of
that I can think of
that is
related to the
actually the first example i had in the
actually the first example I had in the
cap that was
can we
limit the number of
of the operations in for that are
potentially touching the decks right so
like that number is an example of a
tunable also for that for that policy
but of course you know people can
always go around any of those things
like they can write custom code if they
want
so that's a
that's for that
but yeah for the for the ones that i
think that we will be implementing like
they
likely will have yes some tunibles in
them
to
potentially even disable them
companion document
right that would be more in the actual
box of
yeah
so is the general consensus at this
point that people feel i feel like i
point that people feel I feel like i
literally just interrupted justin who's
about to say the same thing but
do people generally feel good about this
now feel bad about this i feel a lot
now feel bad about this I feel a lot
better than i felt when we spoke about
better than I felt when we spoke about
this two weeks ago i feel like we're in
this two weeks ago I feel like we're in
a place where like
i think we could get people behind this
I think we could get people behind this
and it'd be a bit of a mind shift but
people would feel good about it
i don't know if everybody else feels
I don't know if everybody else feels
the same way
yeah i think this has been better than
yeah I think this has been better than
the than the
much better than the last draft i think
much better than the last draft I think
it's this is a tool and i think there's
it's this is a tool and I think there's
understandably some anxiety over like
how is the tool going to be used but i
think the worst case scenario is not
terrible that like we just get rid of
the dutch auction and the most likely
scenario is that
people that you know
Stellar core has some parameters and
like
the thing you know it's done in such a
way that you know it's like like simple
payments are very unlikely to do this
because they would require changing the
sequels plus and that yes we understand
that certain assets and then overloaded
decks may end up
getting this
treatment
yeah exactly like the worst case
scenario is that we end up with what
basically everybody else in the space is
doing
and what we used to have before we went
from construction which was before the
fee bump transaction and so i think that
fee bump transaction and so I think that
there's some i still like the dutch
there's some I still like the dutch
auction but i think it would have been
auction but I think it would have been
harder to make the case for the dutch
auction if we already had the fee bump
and so you know now we've got both
options
yes
i think
I think
like i don't know if
like I don't know if
people so and i think that would be
people so and I think that would be
actually part of
how to
explain to people like the shift here is
that i think by renaming
that I think by renaming
what we do to discount
i think it's actually helps quite a bit
I think it's actually helps quite a bit
people understand what is actually
happening
in terms of like you know when you think
of a discount I'm potentially going to
give you a discount you go to a store
you actually
expect to more or less pay what is you
know displayed
before you start to haggle
and i think that's kind of the
and I think that's kind of the
you know i think
you know I think
it's it's more similar to this
via slack tomer is asking questions
about downstream systems so how do we
expect downstream systems to understand
the fees collected
and then he also said dutch auctions are
already an oddity in the space so this
only makes fees more opaque
and then again raises a concern we need
to figure out how to explain this to
downstream systems
so i know that this is a
so I know that this is a
well i think that's a valid question
well I think that's a valid question
downstream systems how do we expect to
explain this that we've removed the
oddity at least some fraction of the
time
right i think there was a question
right I think there was a question
around
like being able to see which groups and
all that from horizon
from lee on the mailing list i mean the
from lee on the mailing list I mean the
data will be there like it's actually
part of the
of the consensus value
so yeah like i i think
so yeah like I think
yeah we'll probably have to
to think about how to
maybe like expose this a little better
from the the main api that comes on
maybe it's the the api also is like
going to give better
idea of like what's going on and the
current one is actually
also kind of strange because the stats
of other if you look at as a as a
developer if i hit that api that gives
developer if I hit that api that gives
me stats about the last five ledgers
it's actually not
even today it's actually not that great
in terms of experience because you're
looking at like a lot of people like
should i use the
should I use the
tenth percentile or my year's percentile
like and
and actually you're not even guaranteed
of anything by using this they're
sometimes because it's only five ledgers
and you know past performance doesn't
predict future
so
yeah i i think for a lot of developers
yeah I think for a lot of developers
they just ignore they don't they just
say why do i need to check like they've
say why do I need to check like they've
learned
why do i need to check fee stats if i
why do I need to check fee stats if i
just can set my fee super super high and
only be charged the lowest
and so i guess this comes back in part
and so I guess this comes back in part
to that question right like if suddenly
yeah displaying information about fees
in order to make an informed decision is
more important
i think the so it will be actually
I think the so it will be actually
you can still have like the approach
can still be done very much in
isolation
because we you know by
like similar to you know what what we
have today right where people build like
some high number and then that's kind of
it like now they will have to be
a lower
lower than not better than that if they
are
not comfortable with that higher number
and and then
and then retry and then do a
maybe like a
like depending on the on the app right
like it depends like like for
like for many applications building like
a tenth of a cent is actually fine
right in fee
and that's kind of the end of the
story if
like if you really want that transaction
to make it but you don't want to
necessarily expose yourself to
variations
i think a fine strategy is just to have
I think a fine strategy is just to have
like a timeout and multiplier on top or
something like that right like and it's
not complicated
okay
i mean i guess if i had one reservation
I mean I guess if I had one reservation
about this maybe i should just
about this maybe I should just
voice this now I'm not sure this is a
problem but in the nomination value
comparison
I'm not 100 convinced that the second
item in the in the
four tuple the second most significant
item should be total fees that the
transaction set will collect an
alternative which i don't know if it's
alternative which I don't know if it's
better but the point is i don't know an
better but the point is I don't know an
alternative would be to say
it's the total pledged fees the total
offered fees even if the total collected
is less because some transactions ended
up in the discount bucket now
i understand there's there's definitely
I understand there's there's definitely
a good argument why total fees of course
is better otherwise maybe validators
could like game the system or do other
weird things
however there's just one scenario that
maybe I'm concerned about imagine a
situation where we have this thing that
we think is not very economically
beneficial and it's spam so we say okay
we're going to put that in the
non-discount bucket and everything else
goes in the discount bucket and now you
have these transactions that are very
important that are willing to pay a lot
of money but because they're in the
discount bucket two kind of maxed out
nomination values that are completely
both completely full so have the same
number of operations end up favoring
the one that collects more fees
where
it actually even though more fees were
pledged to the other one it's just that
the other people are getting a discount
that maybe they don't even want
yeah i mean that yeah that i mean
yeah I mean that yeah that I mean
i think i don't
I think I don't
think it like using the total
feedback
is necessarily a problem
like we do we just need a way to compare
right like the quality so i think
right like the quality so I think
that you know it actually is aligned
with the
you know
the intent
yeah so
i think yeah like the bid is fine
I think yeah like the bid is fine
probably
so
are there are there other questions to
raise here or points to discuss
i feel like there's still
I feel like there's still
issues that maybe already exist on on a
mailing list
is that correct
or actually i guess i'll just say it
or actually I guess i'll just say it
this way i feel like this should that
this way I feel like this should that
this is not quite ready to move into a
vote or anything that there still may be
some time for marination just to think
about a few of these issues
including maybe thinking about the
downstream implications just yeah i
think i i i want to maybe
think I want to maybe
add a little bit of detail of like the
type of expectations for the downstream
systems and then
and then we can
actually move forward with this one i
mean here's another thing we could do
that i don't i don't necessarily think
that I don't I don't necessarily think
is a good idea but just so that it's
been on the table we've decided it's not
a good thing to do so we could so
unfortunately there's no like flags
you know
section for the fee bump transaction but
we could kind of add a new type of fee
bump transaction where there's a flags
field
and sort of you know
one of these flags could control could
say like basically like like this is
very important like I'm willing to pay
my full i'd rather not have a discount
if it like you know
risks my transaction having like less
chance of getting in
so then at least somebody who like their
transaction is very important they say
like hey don't exclude me just because
you're giving me a discount i don't even
you're giving me a discount I don't even
want that discount
yeah i don't i don't
yeah I don't I don't
think we would
of all the strategies we talked so far
like we would basically have like those
groups right and then within those
groups you may or may not get a discount
but even if you do get the discount you
have to be the highest bidder so i think
have to be the highest bidder so I think
if you bid more than everybody else
like you know what I'm saying we'll get
in right
not necessarily because you might not be
in the winning nomination value
right I'm concerned what i mean a
right I'm concerned what I mean a
validator right that's going to craft a
a set right with all those groups
if you bid more than everybody else
you will be
included
not if you're yeah sorry you'll be
included in the nomination value but it
may get beaten out by another nomination
value
oh in practice we normally only have
like one nomination value right or two
yeah that's very small yeah but that's
but now we're starting to place you know
it increase the amount of trust in you
know like that's not what scp is
designed to
take to guarantee right so yeah i mean
take to guarantee right so yeah I mean
at this point what you're saying like
well the other value right that's from a
different validator would also not
include that transaction that is the
highest bidder right so that's
why I'm imagining i think this is a
why I'm imagining I think this is a
different problem that you're
you you have no
a
that's the same problem the problem is
that somebody keeps nominating
a block that has more spam transactions
and therefore collects higher fees and
that
value kind of ends up beating out a
value with more
useful transactions
but i think this is more of a like why
but I think this is more of a like why
would other validator if there if there
are more spam values right like
this high fee transaction would be
nominated by this other validator unless
they are actually decided that they
would no but i mean like scp is
would no but I mean like scp is
byzantine fault tolerant right we we're
supposed to assume that like some
fraction
of validators could be misbehaving
yeah of course yeah and in this case
and so and so i want to make sure that
and so and so I want to make sure that
that doesn't like severely impact the
you know the what we consider the good
transactions
can i clarify here is this not solved by
can I clarify here is this not solved by
switching the second criteria to the
total feedback oh sorry if we're just
gonna do that then that's fine yeah yeah
that's right that's what i said earlier
that's right that's what I said earlier
oh okay okay sorry i thought you were
oh okay okay sorry I thought you were
gonna consider it but you weren't so
that's why i was saying here's another
that's why I was saying here's another
thing that you do yeah okay sure
i i could still imagine the utility of
I I could still imagine the utility of
like no seriously i really mean to pay
like no seriously I really mean to pay
this bid
flag i just wouldn't support that
flag I just wouldn't support that
today but if somebody were to come
around and be like no like seriously i
have a real reason why i really want to
have a real reason why I really want to
pay these ski bids and waste my money
maybe we maybe there is a real reason
for that i don't know it yet but like
for that I don't know it yet but like
that wouldn't be a hard change to make
like you were describing about adding a
flags thing to the transaction to the
debunk transaction
right
okay
so i guess that's another thing is
so I guess that's another thing is
switching that second value to be keep
it instead of what it is now okay
yeah
okay cool
i feel like that's in progress
I feel like that's in progress
and now
i think it's time to move on
I think it's time to move on
to speed x
so the next cap for today's discussion
is cap 44 speed x configuration speed
x is
a new design for a fully on chain
decentralized exchange that can scale to
an arbitrarily high transaction
throughput
it's implementing it is something we sdf
mentioned in our 2022 roadmap
it's something that's important to sort
of the future scalability of Stellar
it's going to take a few caps to
implement speedx and this first one is
really just about setting up validators
so they can configure speed x
but rather than me trying to explain
that i will pass it i guess
that I will pass it I guess
i guess to john or maybe to jeff who
I guess to john or maybe to jeff who
wants to sort of give an overview of
what this cap does
i'll pass it to john and john if you
want to pass it to jeff up to you I'm
gonna pass it straight to jeff and what
i was thinking is jeff could open with
I was thinking is jeff could open with
just like like a quick pitch on what
like what speed x is why speed x and
then maybe i can go and kind of give a
then maybe I can go and kind of give a
quick pitch on like why we're breaking
up the caps into a bunch of different
things like why we're going section by
section
and kind of what this one is about
and
jeff jeff wrote all the drafts of all of
this stuff in the summer and we've just
been cleaning it up and kind of like
like trying to like make it as
physically simple as possible but all of
these ideas are really jeff's ideas so
thanks yeah so speedx is a
design for trading
settling a bunch of trades in batches
instead of serially and the reason for
this is on the one hand if you if you
settle trades in batches
you can parallelize the operational
exchange so you can scale to
to many transactions per second and also
by trading in batches you get
the market becomes more fair and you get
better liquidity between assets that
aren't very traded very much and
you cut down on a lot of
the common front-running attacks or
the the arbitrage opportunities that
we've been talking about that clog up
the network
as if as for this particular cap
speedx needs a certain amount of
configuration data in particular the big
thing is one
control parameters on how you actually
run the batch
computation and and two
a way of choosing which assets are
traded in the batch and which ones
aren't
and so what this cap does is take a very
like the simplest approach towards
deciding which assets in the batch
namely there's some set list and then
the validators can upgrade that with
some kind of upgrade protocol but you
can imagine the future doing some other
way of choosing which assets are
traded in the patch and it's not
quite clear exactly which kinds of
configuration data we need in the cap at
this point what actually we need will
probably depend on
what we finalize for other speed x
related caps
but this is we'll at least need the
data that we have here
and just to just give a little
information about like why we're
breaking this down into a bunch of small
pieces
so i kind of learned a lesson after we
so I kind of learned a lesson after we
did the liquidity pools work where like
we produced this like 1500 line cap and
it was just like really unwieldy and
people never knew what parts of things
we were talking about and what are the
interactions between things and stuff
like that
so this time different concept
let's break basically let's break this
problem into all the logical parts like
this the configuration of the upgrades
this is like the technical pricing
algorithm that we're going to use this
is how we're going to get the
commutativity and this is how we're
going to settle the trade and those are
kind of like the four verticals that I'm
seeing
and so this one came out first because
it was short and kind of easy and like
it was very well established like what
the space of options were
pricing will come out in the next few
days and then
we'll keep going but i think jeff
we'll keep going but I think jeff
already gave a good overview of what's
kind of in this particular proposal so
yeah and this one contains actually the
most controversial part of the speed
example is it's actually related to what
we just talked about with validators
being able to do things that maybe
they shouldn't have control of
so maybe we should start right on to
that particular topic
yeah just quick question like so when
they're determining this list of assets
this is an extra protocol just like
decision that they're somehow making
like they're saying hey hey guys i think
like they're saying hey hey guys I think
these are the assets that we should add
and then they all
i sort of imagine there's like a listing
I sort of imagine there's like a listing
process or something where you know like
we have this whole set of upgrades for
like changing the transaction set size
or whatever so i'd sort of imagine
we'd do a similar kind of mechanism
there
but like whatever we do it would be kind
of outside the scope of the protocol you
know whatever the ecosystem wants to do
is their system that's what they should
do
i
my hope is that this list isn't changing
like every second that would be really
unnecessary like
so it should be the type of thing that
people can coordinate pretty easily on
like a day-to-day basis
but the the real question i have here is
but the the real question I have here is
kind of like
are people going to be upset about
handing this kind of power to validators
i mean it's
I mean it's
it's very much like not in the kind of
scope that we currently
explore at least before cap 42.
it's very much the same kind of power
of like hey like these assets live in
this privileged world where they have
access to this feature and these other
assets don't
do people feel bad about this
because i i have something i mean
because I have something I mean
personally
the way
go ahead
i mean i guess the the
I mean I guess the the
the thing that i would
the thing that I would
like to at least consider is that
instead of one magically privileged
speed x you could at least theoretically
have room for like multiple speed x's
where asset issuers could you know by
default be included in any speed x but
could also like say like which speed x
they want to be included in
so they could kind of revoke permission
for being in a particular speed x so if
you did this then this is seems like a
more Stellar way of doing things because
then in practice like all the assets
anyone would care about will probably
all want to be in a speed x together but
if some another bunch of random assets
wanted to be in a speed x together like
you know
you know importance is in the eye the
beholder no one's to no one is to say
that like assets a b and c are less
important than assets x y and z it's
just that you know
x y and z are happy together and a b and
c are happy together
this is an interesting
concept
not something that actually came up
in the earlier discussion at all so
already i I'm intrigued
already I I'm intrigued
i guess my first kind of like
I guess my first kind of like
reactionary question to this is like
the main motivation for breaking out
like a speedex list
is just computational concerns
so how does that square with having
multiple
lists or having to like you could even
imagine a world where like everybody's
like okay well you know like there's
this one list which has this preferred
status but like let's put everything
else into this other list
well because the the problem is that the
the list themselves would have to be
capped right because there's a super
linear stuff in the in the kind of
number of assets right and so if you can
you know it's cheaper to compute two
small two speed x's with like 100 assets
than one speed x with 200 assets
isn't it
certain parts of it at least i
haven't figured out how to scale
beyond some fixed quantity of assets
effectively
which parts are those
so the the price computation the the
number of rounds that you need
seems to like increases somewhat as
the number of assets goes up and but
the the big limitation i think is the
the the big limitation I think is the
the the linear programming follow-up
phase
the hand rolled the hand world solver
that i i wrote for Stellar over the
that I wrote for Stellar over the
summer was turns out doesn't work
very well at all past like 20 assets if
you take an office shelf solver i was
you take an office shelf solver I was
getting it to
50 to
80 and then a custom hand rolled solver
that i had all sorts of you know
that I had all sorts of you know
sparse optimizations and everything in
it i could push that to 100 but
it I could push that to 100 but
but the performance of that really
starts to
increase very non nonlinearly after a
while
i i don't i wasn't able to push it
I don't I wasn't able to push it
past like a 100-ish ish
so i think some other technique might be
so I think some other technique might be
needed there
what's the incentive for an asset issuer
wanting their asset to be in a speedex
list
you get
basically more liquid trading and or
like better usability on the asset
i think as i mean it said
so one of the
going on on what david was saying
so one of the things that comes up
in
speed x
is like in the speedx pricing cap
that I'm still in the middle of working
on based on jeff's
but we
spoiler alert we agreed on this kind of
scheme where basically like in the
pre-nomination phase validators nominate
a set of prices and then
in order to see if those prices are like
relatively sane
you know we also like have all the
validators do like the standardized
computation using the solver parameters
in the config
to try to produce a second thing and
then we choose whichever price to seem
like they're better
that second phase requires that linear
program that jeff was talking about
which he doesn't know how to scale up
very high
but if we just said like hey like we
have this one one speed x that we're
gonna do both phases for
we'll do the pre nomination and the post
nomination and that's how we'll try to
produce a really good reliable set of
prices
and then for the second phase or sorry
for all the other speedx lists
you have to both present the prices
and
the network flow that's already rounded
so we don't need to do the linear
program
then we avoid that scaling issue and
then maybe we can do more we don't do
the internal calculation we just accept
those prices maybe they're good maybe
they're bad
and that's the cost of not being in that
main list
but that is a lot fairer than saying
like you're either in the list you're
not nonetheless
i mean somebody has to do the linear
I mean somebody has to do the linear
program either way though
right sure but
i guess my argument would be if you
I guess my argument would be if you
can't produce a solution
you won't trade
right but it's not necessarily people
who want to trade who are
producing the solution it's the people
who have access to the order book
because they're you know
on you know
validators in the network
but like you could very much
like bear with me for crazy ideas you
could very much imagine running
you know like hey like you know we're
the people who like want the speed x to
happen we run this web service
all your validator has to do is hit this
web service and we'll spit out the
answer for you so that you don't have to
actually do the computation well oh but
the point is now it's not a sorry but is
that the valid or the end user is doing
is it like is there's a special
operation type which is like speedx
solution or it's like right so the point
is like you were disempowering the end
users if we're saying like now you're
kind of like you're reliant on like
whatever solver your
your validator happens to be willing or
not willing to to use
but the flip side of it is like there's
90 when i looked at this when we were
90 when I looked at this when we were
working on this in the
early winter there were 89 000 and
something assets on Stellar
even if we broke it into
100 groups of 90 to standard jeff's 100
threshold we couldn't do all of that
in the same way like we couldn't give
everybody the same level of attention
there's not enough time to do it well i
think you just have to price it properly
right i mean that you know we could have
right I mean that you know we could have
you know a super linear
you know we
reserve fee for like putting your asset
into a speed x or something right it
could like increase with the number of
assets and speed exits i think you know
assets and speed exits I think you know
i'd rather like take the actual costs we
have and reflect those back onto users
and say like this is what it's going to
cost to network so like you have to be
willing to pay for it rather than
having validators make value judgments
about like which assets are good and
which are bad
I'm sorry you're so willing to have
that it would cost the issuer of the
asset would be the one that would bear
the cost of being listed into a speedx
list not the cost but the reserve
requirement the reserve requirement
potentially
and again I'm not saying that like you
know i do think that there are kind of
know I do think that there are kind of
spam assets in their assets that
everybody cares about but
i think that the va that we should kind
I think that the va that we should kind
of instead of just magically decree the
value of an asset we should have
existing asset issuers say hey i
actually value having a market between
my asset and this other asset
right and that's the sense in which
maybe you could end up with multiple
speed x's like maybe there's a
weird like in-game currency market for
like a whole bunch of and then there's
like an actual real currency of like
stable coins or something
and you know maybe those two markets
don't need to inter-operate or they only
operate on the native asset or something
and then the validators aren't don't we
don't have to be in a position of saying
like actually we think like euros are
more important than like game credits or
whatever which like we might but like
why why should we be making that value
decision
so so we could say like
each speed x batch has like an id or
something
and it's not the validators that
choose what's in that it's the asset
issuers can like propose to put their
asset into a batch and then if you put
your asset into a batch then all the
other asset issues were there
like say yes or no or they have a
vote or something and basically the
asset issuers are the ones choosing
who's in the batch and not the
validators
yes i mean that is one way to do it
yes I mean that is one way to do it
another way to do it is sort of like
each person who joins the batch it gets
like exponentially more expensive and
you need an exponentially larger like
reserve so it's like
you know you can sort of out or maybe
you can outbid whoever it's whoever has
like the largest reserves who gets in or
some combination of of the above i feel
some combination of of the above I feel
like we probably want some amount of
input i mean what are the signals that
input I mean what are the signals that
are sort of
like in some sense egalitarian at least
kind of
you know like a
objectively egalitarian
but like are potentially useful so
one signal is like does an asset issuer
value a market between his or her asset
and some other asset and another signal
is like what is my
how much how many native assets do i
have you know what do i do i meet a
have you know what do I do I meet a
high reserve requirement
and so like if we could sort of factor
these two things in so the reserve
requirement is is an absolute thing and
the whether one asset thinks another
one is interesting is a relative thing
i think you still need some kind of
I think you still need some kind of
veto power from the people who are
already there it's just so well that's
what i mean that's the first one that's
what I mean that's the first one that's
the relative thing that I'm talking
about I'm saying like what
i mean maybe it's a video or maybe it's
I mean maybe it's a video or maybe it's
a preference
i i I'm going to avoid something that
I I I'm going to avoid something that
tomer just also shared on slack which is
a concern with like creating too much
complexity around these around how these
configurations work that make it really
hard for people to interact with Stellar
just because there's too many
it's just like
issuers don't have to do this kind of
thing anywhere else
adding a lot a lot of complexity makes
Stellar just less appealing for use
it's something i think that is worth
it's something I think that is worth
considering in this design yeah so i i
considering in this design yeah so I i
mean and part of the way we can get
around that is by having like really
sensible defaults
right but i feel like we should
right but I feel like we should
we at least need some of these we need
to like
work through some of these designs
before we decide that they're like too
comp complex or before we give up like
this is just
there's too much
like i just don't want validators
like I just don't want validators
picking winners and losers you know
if we can at all avoid it so we need to
either
avoid that or convince ourselves that
there's no way to avoid it and i just
there's no way to avoid it and I just
don't think we're quite there yet
and like
this maybe different
related questions so like what was the
the reason to
like if you had a
a limit
right so that's what you're like the the
only thing really there that you need
for sure is the
maximum number of assets
involved in this fedex run so
then what was what is was there any
reason for not just using fees as a way
to
to force people to to just like
you know you you basically
only keep
the top the
top k
assets
right that are involving speed x and
that is defined by fees
the reason that that doesn't work is
that you can imagine
that there are time like you can imagine
for example like a us government bond
take that it's like one of the most
liquid markets for anything in the world
probably like on the same par as like
other at like other very ultra liquid
things like usd euro
but like those are like some ultra
liquid things but like i want to focus
liquid things but like I want to focus
on the bonds because the prices don't
change all the time
like prices change but like if you
look and then you look again one second
later
you might see the exact same prices
in fact you're probably pretty likely to
see the exact same prices in those cases
there might be nobody who's willing to
pay a fee to trade
but there'd probably be an incredibly
liquid
liquidity pool
that also would be willing to trade to
help settle out all the other trades
that people want to make
that liquidity pool isn't bidding any
fee
so do you just say like oh sorry like
we're not going to include the most
liquid market in the world
because nobody wants to trade this exact
second
that seems really perverse to me right i
think what you want everybody
what you want is for all the other
assets to say hey i want people to be
assets to say hey I want people to be
able to like trade you know these
treasuries or whatever from my asset
because that's like it's a useful
feature
for users of my asset to have right
so that that's why
you need
you need some amount of kind of
configuration you need some you need
some kind of input from the asset
issuers
right we should at least consider a
design that has some amount of input
from asset issuers
i mean like i still don't understand
I mean like I still don't understand
like you know in your example john
yes you have this asset that is very
stable and so on
but like
even if that asset is included in a pool
if people don't make money of
you know
doing a trade against some other asset
like
if the if that trade is not that
valuable like how is such pricing
going to work no it is valuable it's
just not valuable to the asset issuer
right imagine suppose you know the fed
issues a digital dollar on on Stellar
right
i get it like it's more like like
I get it like it's more like like
like what i was suggesting is that you
like what I was suggesting is that you
you the way you pick
the top 10 assets is by actually looking
at the trades that are happening
across you know the network
because you have to have this function
that you know which top k
top end transactions are you keeping for
that speed x
round and as part of that you can wait
sorry is it for a round i thought this
sorry is it for a round I thought this
was a more coarse grained thing like we
just kind of
you know every once in a while we'll
configure a you know speed x to have
a different set of assets i mean yeah it
a different set of assets I mean yeah it
should be a wrong i mean it's there's
should be a wrong I mean it's there's
a level of granite granularity there i
don't know like but you know i mean if
don't know like but you know I mean if
we are going to do it find granularity
then we should do it through some kind
of transaction as opposed to through
like a protocol upgrade or whatever the
upgrade
part of the nomination message of value
if it's per asset issuer it should be a
yeah transaction and not an upgrade i
guess
i think doing it to find grain is a
I think doing it to find grain is a
little dangerous just because
there's gonna be a lot of assets that
are sporadically traded and so like
if you try and like optimize like i
don't know some max over the transaction
set assets are gonna be going in and
out of the pool a lot and that's hard to
predict for users and so usually kind
of gonna get a lot of like really failed
transactions which is a bad
experience
yeah the cap mentions that and i totally
yeah the cap mentions that and I totally
agree like i definitely wouldn't want a
agree like I definitely wouldn't want a
world where that set changes every
ledger that sounds like really
impossible to use and everybody will
just be really frustrated and hate it
well at this point we are out of time
for today's meeting i guess just jeff
for today's meeting I guess just jeff
and john do you sort of have
some input that allows you to go move
forward i mean i know that we can bring
forward I mean I know that we can bring
this back to the mailing list too
is there any like final question that's
like what what should happen what's the
next step that we need to answer here
are we ready to move
you sort of have enough
i think it's pretty clear that people
I think it's pretty clear that people
want us to ask other questions about
what could be done
like i have some pretty strong opinions
like I have some pretty strong opinions
about what what like why it should be
the way i proposed but like I'm really
the way I proposed but like I'm really
happy to go and explore some other
things and try to write up what they
would be like and like what pitfalls we
might encounter it'd probably be kind of
fun honestly so i i kind of know what i
fun honestly so I kind of know what i
need to do
jeff you feel the same yeah i agree
jeff you feel the same yeah I agree
with that yeah
well i mean i think i think maybe it's
well I mean I think I think maybe it's
like for me it's like that
there are some questions here that I'm
not sure we can answer without actually
having
like
how do you actually produce the
denomination value like like if if i
don't have a clear idea of like
how do we pick which transactions to be
included
you know like based on fees like it
sounds like some of the properties
you're looking for actually
you're looking for a more balanced
like composition as opposed to
just high fees
and I'm not sure are you talking
about me or about david
no
about you yeah john
i I'm looking for whatever whatever
I I'm looking for whatever whatever
simple thing we can do that people can
agree on
like that's why i just gave it to the
like that's why I just gave it to the
validators because i thought we'd be
validators because I thought we'd be
able to agree on that and they could
agree and figure out what what is good
for the network
that's what like when lee posted on the
mailing list
and about like other things we could do
and my response was basically like you'd
have to convince me that a heuristic
would outperform the validators who care
about stewarding the network
assuming that we are actually
restricting like a small number of speed
x assets in a world like david's where
we have multiple sets maybe and we're
expanding the capacity by like breaking
them up maybe it's a different trade-off
but like if we're going to look at a
single block you'd have to convince me
that like the heuristic could outperform
the validators who just want to do
what's good for the network
i mean the other question is would it
I mean the other question is would it
make sense to have two tiers like you
you'd have like the core speedx assets
and then other assets that can be traded
for any of the 20 core speedx assets but
but it's not making a market between any
of the like a pair of non-core assets
shmedex has assets shmedex and speedx
sorry
we've exhausted justin he's trying to
kick us out and
all right look to be continued
[Laughter]
thanks everybody yeah to be continued
seeing a couple weeks and on the mailing
list again everybody out there thanks
for watching
if you're interested join the Stellar
dev mailing list to participate in the
discussion as it unfolds
so long
you